# Flight-Hint
As air travel is getting more and more popular these days, getting a flight ticket at a reasonable price is a major concern as the flight ticket prices are known to vary unexpectedly. The factors involved in pricing dynamically change over time and make the price fluctuate. Many airlines change ticket prices for their revenue management. They may diminish the cost at the time they need to build the market and at the time when the tickets are less accessible and they may increase the prices when the demand is expected to increase. The ultimate aim of the airways is to earn profits whereas the customer searches for the minimum rate.

Predicting the optimal timing for airline ticket purchasing from the consumer’s perspective is therefore challenging. Buyers usually have insufficient information about future price movements and fluctuations, as a result of which it is very hard for the client to buy an air ticket at the most reduced cost.

The task of making an optimal and reliable prediction is tough but given the right data and cleaning and preparing data according to our requirements, fair predictions can be achieved. The project will basically be machine learning and statistic intensive. Also, for any prediction or classification problem, we need historical data to work with. In this project, past flight prices for each route collected on a daily basis will be required including the features like departure time, arrival time and airways over a specific period. Features are extracted from the collected data to apply Machine Learning models.

After we have the data, we need to clean and prepare the data according to the model's requirements. This will be the most important and the most time-consuming step and will be achieved through various statistical techniques and logics. This preparation of data will be followed by analysing the data, uncovering the hidden trends and then applying various predictive and classification models on the training set. After this we will have to test the models on our testing set, come up with the most suitable metric and make an accurate prediction.
